docs(2021-04-13): frontend initiatives meeting minutes (#258)
dhis2/notes: decisions/2021/04/13-fe-initiatives.md

When: April 13, 2021 @ 15:00 CET
Where: Online
Attending: Austin, Viktor, Bjørn, Christos, Debora, Edoardo, Ismay,
Jan-Gerke, Joakim, Joe, Kai, Martin, Simona, Hendrik, Médi-Rémi,
Jennifer, Jan Henrik, Birk

# Agenda

## Introductions!

  - Welcome Simona!

## Decisions

### Standardize application file layout #248 
    
Discussion: https://github.com/dhis2/notes/discussions/257

Goal was unambiguous rules, difficult to define across all
application sizes.

Guidelines: 

1. Have similar organisation strategies between all our apps
2. Organise by-function, not by-type
3. Avoid ambiguity (i.e. no conceptual overlap in folder names)
4. Avoid generic folder names, and attempt to chose names that
   immediately reveal what’s inside
5. Accept that a project-structure is not a static thing you can
   define up-front, the structure should evolve with the app

Rules:

1. Routes live under `src/pages`

> 2. Components live under `src/components` and must only contain JSX

Reviewer: I'm wondering if having a folder that _can't_ contain jsx and only regular js would be useful as well. For the kind of code that often lives in utils, services, etc.

Reviewer 2: I was actually thinking - JSX can ONLY be used in `src/components` (and `src/pages`).  Any other directories should therefore be JSX-free.  I don't think we can say "only" JSX in `src/component`, as there will definitely be some javascript in there too, but we can enforce that no JSX is allowed outside those two directories, and can employ the convention that all js files in `src/components` should export a single React component?

Author: Yeah, this can definitely be phrased a lot clearer.

Reviewer: @amcgee, yeah I think there are several eslint/react rules we could use there. Restricting jsx to the components dir, single component per file, etc. Sounds useful 👍

Reviewer 3: This is interesting, because I had a different understanding of what we were talking about yesterday.
In my opinion, depending on the scale, a single `components` folder on the root level might not make much sense and could lead to unnecessary abstractions (which is what @ismay worried about in the beginning of the discussion, and I agree; see sms config app - initially had a `src/components` folder but moving away from that removed a lot of complexity)

Similarly having a fixed `src/pages` folder to me only makes sense IF we use `next.js`. Otherwise we'll introduce overhead to the app. If we approach this the other way: "No next.js-like pages folder until using next.js", it's quite trivial work to restructure an app when introducing next.js (or a router service) while we reduce the complexity of all apps that don't use next.js/our own implementaiton/routing-service (which is all apps right now and - until finalized - still a vague idea => If we use a next.js architecture now, but end up with a slightly different implementation, we have more work because we first have to restructure apps to next.js-style and then additionally adjust to our dhis2-adjusted variant. If we do this once we have the dhis2-variant, it'd be the same amount of work as we'd be doing now, so there'd be no time saved by doing this now (enforcing a rule) but on the other hand, time save if we defer this until we know exactly how we want to do this).

Also having a `components` folder is actually the opposite of organizing by function, it's organizing by type (component vs non-component). So I'm against having a rule for this. There are def. apps where this makes sense, e. g. with a single-domain-complexity, like the scheduler app, but one things get more complicated, like the maintenance app, a `src/components` folder would introduce unnecessary complexity (which is why we struggled having rules in the first place).

What I understood yesterday is: Different modules should separate code into components and non-components (which makes a lot of since for internal module organization), but we should keep this as a guide, rather than a rule, because different apps need different levels of complexity

Reviewer 2: Made a suggestion to reflect this approach

Author: :+1: for suggestions.

> 1. Routes live under `src/pages`
> 2. Components live under `src/components` and must only contain JSX
>    files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Routes live under `src/pages`, one React component file per route
2. Components live under `src/components` and should contain React components
3. React components (JSX) are NOT allowed in any other directories,
    which should contain business logic and utilities.
```

> Conclusion is that the 5 guidelines above and the 1 rule is adopted, and will be written up

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Conclusion is that the 5 guidelines above and the 3 rules are adopted, and will be written up
```

and documented.

## Task Forces & Updates

### PWA / Offline Caching

> Platform side is working on recording network calls, start and stopping.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Platform side is working on recording network calls, start and stopping. [spec](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uaftvVvZdDppTXFCRXF19WaS9NKVq0BG8dus_mRe_w0/edit#heading=h.jd28kwz1a5xn)
```

Analytics side is focusing on the dashboard app and aligning with the
API that the platform will provide and what should be cached, and what
should not be cached.

### Continuous Delivery

Over the next few weeks all our core apps are going to be uploaded to
the App Hub.

Need to update our release toolchain to publish to the App Hub as a
semantic-release plugin.

### Developer Outreach

Good turn out for the developer meet ups on last Friday. The developer
community is growing, and fun to see interaction between the community
members.

Joined Android and Webapp academy for advanced topics first week of May
over the course of 4 days. Currently working on the agenda.

Advanced topics like i18n, testing, and security.

Collaborators needed, please reach out to Debora if you would like to
present.

If you don't want to present, you can help by producing guides for the

> developers.dhis2.org site.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
developers.dhis2.org site. Check this [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-QfPhG80_EVSN1X6z4CTjYeTo2fbTEt3tgNNnPPvBjo/edit?usp=sharing) to get an idea of what kind of content to write/add. 
```

Author: Thank you!

### PR Previews

Got OK to use Netlify, ready to move ahead with this.

Next step is to whitelist the PR urls, and setup the actions.

### Large collections APIs

Now that Platform is used for national installations with COVID
vaccinations we are hitting restrictions in terms of option sets with
tens of thousands of options, that are difficult to manage given

> restrictions in the API.

Reviewer 5: I'd prefer it if this was phrased in more generic terms: user-groups with many users, option-sets with many options, programs/program-stages with many org-units are examples where we've already seen this break. But essentially the problem is just with "nested collections" or "many-to-many relationships" in general.

Reviewer 2: Seconded

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
vaccinations we are hitting restrictions in terms of collections 
(and particularly nested collections) with tens of thousands of 
children, that are difficult to manage given restrictions in the API.
```

Backend is working on:

-   Partial update support. JSON Patch specification is being
    implemented.

-   New Gist API is worked on that will be a more performant variant that
    doesn't return all the nested collections. Will contain a suite of
    queries and selectors to help when asking for data.

> 

Reviewer 5: I think we should add one something here reg. the next step(s) we are going to be taking as a frontend team:
- The current view is that our users expect an "atomic-update-UI" for editing objects. With this we mean that all fields, including the nested collection inputs on one form and the users edits everything in one go.
- This viewpoint is based on historical user feedback from times where we did in fact have a separate UI section for managing these nested collections managed separately, and this was not appreciated.
- However, we all agreed that we should probably not assume this viewpoint is necessarily still correct. There could have been issues with the old UI that would have been solved easily. And also, given the fact that our current input components aren't really suitable for the new way of managing nested collections, we don't know what our "atomic-UI" would look like.

We should:
1. Implement a UI design for both "atomic updates" and "separate nested collection management sections".
2. If not too much work, implement a POC for both (the user-app is a good app to do this in)
3. Get user feedback, preferably after interqacting with our POCs, but alternatively I suppose we could also just discuss the designs with them

Author: Nice, thanks @HendrikThePendric .

### Others?

#### cli-utils-docsite

> Feature in docsite to use react-docgen.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Feature in docsite to use react-docgen, will keep parallel `jsdoc` support for non-React documentation.
```
